README.md, before:

# Ivy

A React Native Expo app for podcast and audiobook playback with library management, clips/bookmarks with notes, and GPU-accelerated timeline UI. Files are automatically copied to app-owned storage to prevent content URI invalidation issues, with resume position tracking and auto-play support.

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Node.js
- **Android**: Android Studio with SDK installed, `ANDROID_HOME` environment variable set
- **iOS**: Xcode (macOS only)

### Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Development Client Setup

This project uses Expo Dev Client (custom development build) instead of Expo Go to support native file streaming and avoid memory issues with large audio files.

#### 1. Install Dev Client Package

```bash
npx expo install expo-dev-client
```

#### 2. Generate Native Projects

```bash
# Android only
npx expo prebuild --platform android

# iOS only (macOS required)
npx expo prebuild --platform ios

# Both platforms
npx expo prebuild
```

#### 3. Build and Install Development Client (MacOS)

**Android:**

```bash
# Find Android Studio's bundled JDK
export JAVA_HOME="/Applications/Android Studio.app/Contents/jbr/Contents/Home"

# Build APK
(cd android && ./gradlew assembleDebug)

# Install on device (connect via USB or use emulator)
adb install -r android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk
```

**iOS:**

```bash
# Build and run on simulator
npx expo run:ios

# Or build for device
# Open ios/Ivy.xcworkspace in Xcode
# Select your device and build
```

#### 4. Start Development Server

```bash
npx expo start --dev-client
```

Open the installed app on your device - it will connect to the Metro bundler automatically.

### Rebuilding After Native Changes

When you add new native dependencies or modify native code:

```bash
# Android
cd android && ./gradlew clean && ./gradlew assembleDebug
adb install -r android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk

# iOS
cd ios && xcodebuild clean
npx expo run:ios
```

## Production Builds

### Local Production Builds

**Android APK:**

```bash
cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
# Output: android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk
```

**Android AAB (for Google Play):**

```bash
cd android && ./gradlew bundleRelease
# Output: android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/app-release.aab
```

**iOS (macOS only):**

```bash
# Open Xcode
open ios/Ivy.xcworkspace

# Product > Archive
# Follow Xcode's distribution workflow
```

### Cloud Builds with EAS

For easier builds without local setup:

```bash
# Install EAS CLI
npm install -g eas-cli

# Configure project
eas build:configure

# Build for Android
eas build --platform android

# Build for iOS
eas build --platform ios

# Build for both
eas build --platform all
```

## Tech Stack

- React Native 0.81.5
- Expo SDK 54
- Zustand (state management)
- Expo Router (file-based navigation)
- expo-audio (playback with 100ms polling)
- expo-sqlite (persistence)
- @shopify/react-native-skia (GPU timeline rendering)

## Key Features

- **File Storage**: Copies external files to app-owned storage with chunked streaming to avoid OOM
- **Resume Position**: Automatically saves and restores playback position
- **Clips/Bookmarks**: Create time-based clips with notes
- **GPU Timeline**: Hardware-accelerated timeline with center-fixed playhead
- **Auto-play**: Resumes from last position on file load

## Development Tools

The Library screen header has dev-only buttons:

- **Sample**: Load bundled test audio file (useful for quick testing)
- **Reset**: Clear all data (files, clips, sessions)

## E2E Testing

End-to-end tests use [Maestro](https://maestro.mobile.dev/) for UI automation.

### Prerequisites

1. Install Maestro CLI:
   ```bash
   curl -Ls "https://get.maestro.mobile.dev" | bash
   ```

2. Start an Android emulator with the dev client installed

3. Start the Expo dev server:
   ```bash
   npx expo start --dev-client
   ```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
maestro test maestro/

# Run a specific test
maestro test maestro/smoke-test.yaml
maestro test maestro/load-and-play.yaml
```

### Available Test Flows

| Flow | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `smoke-test.yaml` | Verifies empty states on Library and Clips screens |
| `load-and-play.yaml` | Tests file loading, playback controls, and library persistence |
| `clip-crud.yaml` | Tests clip creation, note editing, and deletion |
| `timeline-gestures.yaml` | Tests timeline tap-to-seek, swipe-to-scrub, and flick momentum |

### Writing Tests

Tests are YAML files in the `maestro/` directory. A bundled test audio file (`assets/test/test-audio.mp3`) is available for tests — the "Sample" button loads it without needing the file picker.

See [Maestro documentation](https://maestro.mobile.dev/getting-started/writing-your-first-flow) for flow syntax.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: add AI notice to README

README.md, after:

# Ivy

A React Native Expo app for podcast and audiobook playback with library management, clips/bookmarks with notes, and GPU-accelerated timeline UI. Files are automatically copied to app-owned storage to prevent content URI invalidation issues, with resume position tracking and auto-play support.

### AI Notice

This project was created using an AI-assisted workflow. Humans took care of design, architecture and decision-making while Claude did most of the writing following specific instructions for each task. This kind of micromanaged collaboration was enormously successful and accelerated the project significantly. Thanks, Claude!

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- Node.js
- **Android**: Android Studio with SDK installed, `ANDROID_HOME` environment variable set
- **iOS**: Xcode (macOS only)

### Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Development Client Setup

This project uses Expo Dev Client (custom development build) instead of Expo Go to support native file streaming and avoid memory issues with large audio files.

#### 1. Install Dev Client Package

```bash
npx expo install expo-dev-client
```

#### 2. Generate Native Projects

```bash
# Android only
npx expo prebuild --platform android

# iOS only (macOS required)
npx expo prebuild --platform ios

# Both platforms
npx expo prebuild
```

#### 3. Build and Install Development Client (MacOS)

**Android:**

```bash
# Find Android Studio's bundled JDK
export JAVA_HOME="/Applications/Android Studio.app/Contents/jbr/Contents/Home"

# Build APK
(cd android && ./gradlew assembleDebug)

# Install on device (connect via USB or use emulator)
adb install -r android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk
```

**iOS:**

```bash
# Build and run on simulator
npx expo run:ios

# Or build for device
# Open ios/Ivy.xcworkspace in Xcode
# Select your device and build
```

#### 4. Start Development Server

```bash
npx expo start --dev-client
```

Open the installed app on your device - it will connect to the Metro bundler automatically.

### Rebuilding After Native Changes

When you add new native dependencies or modify native code:

```bash
# Android
cd android && ./gradlew clean && ./gradlew assembleDebug
adb install -r android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk

# iOS
cd ios && xcodebuild clean
npx expo run:ios
```

## Production Builds

### Local Production Builds

**Android APK:**

```bash
cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
# Output: android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk
```

**Android AAB (for Google Play):**

```bash
cd android && ./gradlew bundleRelease
# Output: android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/app-release.aab
```

**iOS (macOS only):**

```bash
# Open Xcode
open ios/Ivy.xcworkspace

# Product > Archive
# Follow Xcode's distribution workflow
```

### Cloud Builds with EAS

For easier builds without local setup:

```bash
# Install EAS CLI
npm install -g eas-cli

# Configure project
eas build:configure

# Build for Android
eas build --platform android

# Build for iOS
eas build --platform ios

# Build for both
eas build --platform all
```

## Tech Stack

- React Native 0.81.5
- Expo SDK 54
- Zustand (state management)
- Expo Router (file-based navigation)
- expo-audio (playback with 100ms polling)
- expo-sqlite (persistence)
- @shopify/react-native-skia (GPU timeline rendering)

## Key Features

- **File Storage**: Copies external files to app-owned storage with chunked streaming to avoid OOM
- **Resume Position**: Automatically saves and restores playback position
- **Clips/Bookmarks**: Create time-based clips with notes
- **GPU Timeline**: Hardware-accelerated timeline with center-fixed playhead
- **Auto-play**: Resumes from last position on file load

## Development Tools

The Library screen header has dev-only buttons:

- **Sample**: Load bundled test audio file (useful for quick testing)
- **Reset**: Clear all data (files, clips, sessions)

## E2E Testing

End-to-end tests use [Maestro](https://maestro.mobile.dev/) for UI automation.

### Prerequisites

1. Install Maestro CLI:
   ```bash
   curl -Ls "https://get.maestro.mobile.dev" | bash
   ```

2. Start an Android emulator with the dev client installed

3. Start the Expo dev server:
   ```bash
   npx expo start --dev-client
   ```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
maestro test maestro/

# Run a specific test
maestro test maestro/smoke-test.yaml
maestro test maestro/load-and-play.yaml
```

### Available Test Flows

| Flow | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `smoke-test.yaml` | Verifies empty states on Library and Clips screens |
| `load-and-play.yaml` | Tests file loading, playback controls, and library persistence |
| `clip-crud.yaml` | Tests clip creation, note editing, and deletion |
| `timeline-gestures.yaml` | Tests timeline tap-to-seek, swipe-to-scrub, and flick momentum |

### Writing Tests

Tests are YAML files in the `maestro/` directory. A bundled test audio file (`assets/test/test-audio.mp3`) is available for tests — the "Sample" button loads it without needing the file picker.

See [Maestro documentation](https://maestro.mobile.dev/getting-started/writing-your-first-flow) for flow syntax.

## License

MIT
